Nmap SMB NSE Scripts
Nmap contains many useful NSE scripts
that can be used to discover
and enumerate SMB services.
These scripts can be found in the
nmap scripts directory.
Here we find several interesting
Nmap SMB NSE scripts
that perform various tasks such as
OS discovery and enumeration via SMB.
Let’s try the smb-os-discovery module.
This particular script identified
a potential match
for the host operating system.
To check for known
SMB protocol vulnerabilities,
we can invoke one of the
smb-vuln NSE scripts.
We will take a look at smb-vuln-ms08-067,
which uses the –script-args option
to pass arguments to the NSE script.
Note that by setting the
script argument unsafe=1,
the script is almost (or totally)
guaranteed to crash a vulnerable system.
Needless to say,
we should exercise extreme caution
when enabling this argument,
especially when scanning
production systems.
In this case, Nmap identifies that
the specific SMB service
is missing at least
one critical patch
for the MS08-067.